I'm going to show you some new tweaks
along with bios settings that can
tremendously help you boost FPS and
reduce input delay in all games by
optimizing your CPU GPU and the ram
these will work for both Windows 10 and
windows 11 as well as boost performance
on any low end mid or high-end PC
helping you get the most performance out
of your CPU and GPU as well as your
windows so let's dive into it so we're
going to be going ahead and starting off
with some of the CPU and GPU tweaks
within the windows itself and then we're
going to be going ahead and moving on to
the BIOS settings applying these tweaks
in this sequence that I showed you guys
will help ensure that all of the tweaks
work properly and that you get the most
performance out of your windows so go
down into the description of this video
and download the regnetics bias guide
pack from my website once you have it
downloaded just go ahead and extract it
and then open it up inside of here the
very first thing that you want to do is
apply the disable UAC registry file this
is basically going to go ahead and
disable the user account control dialog
box and will ensure that all of the
tweaks that we're gonna and applying
later on will all work properly so just
double click on it hit yes hit OK and
then go ahead and restart your PC once
you have restarted go ahead and come
back here and then we can move on
starting with the power tweaks so inside
of here go ahead and double click on the
import powerplant.reg hit yes hit OK and
it will make it so that all you need to
do is double click on any power plant to
import it into your power plant settings
for me I have provided you guys with the
request power plant which has worked
really well for a lot of people so all
you need to do is double click on it and
now the power plan has been successfully
imported just go ahead and double click
on the power plants right here and it
should take you to the power options
inside of here under the hide additional
plans you should now be able to see a
request power plant just go ahead and
select it and then you can close out of
it the fourth one here is the disable
power throttling so what it does is
basically limit the performance of your
CPU in order to conserve power which of
course is bad for gaming and all you
need to do is double click on it hit
just hit OK and now it should have been
disabled just keep in mind that for some
laptops you might want to keep it on if
you are facing high temperatures but
other than that go back into the pack
and open up GPU tweaks I'm gonna go
ahead and go one by one from all of
these just go ahead and follow along
with the GPU that you have so for the
AMD users go ahead and open up AMD
inside of here the first one is the
disable ultra low power State and what
it actually will do is basically force
your CPU to not go into low power states
which as the name suggests will help you
increase the performance of your GPU so
just go ahead double click on it since I
don't use an AMD GPU I'm not going to go
ahead and apply it as for the second one
this is basically going to be a
alternative to the Nvidia profile
inspector that I will show you which
will basically go ahead and change some
of the settings inside of the Radeon
software itself so just go ahead and
apply this then going back and for the
Intel users just go ahead and open up
these both pictures and then just go
ahead and copy the settings that are
listed here into your Intel control
panel as for the Nvidia users go ahead
and open it up and inside of you the
first one that you want to apply is the
Nvidia GPU tweaks now what this will do
is actually it will work in Nation with
the Nvidia profile that we will be
importing it will be making sure that
some of these settings that are inside
of this profile are actually applied
well and work with your GPU driver so
all you need to do is double click on it
hit yes hit OK and after that just go
ahead and drag the ragnetic quick
profile onto the Nvidia profile
inspector and yeah that's basically it
this profile contains the best 3D
settings as well as some of the Hidden
settings that are not present in the
nvtech control panel but can be changed
via the Nvidia profile inspector so now
that you have applied the best GPU
settings go back into the pack once more
and inside of here go ahead and disable
the GPU energy driver which is basically
a useless service that runs in the
background of your PC consuming a little
bit of your GPU and CPU resources as for
the disable Spectra and meltdown before
disabling this I just want to tell you
guys what it actually does and whether
you should disable it or not so meltdown
and Specter exploit critical
vulnerabilities in modern processors
which allow certain programs to steal
data which is currently processing on
your computer so Specter and meltdown
protection is as the name suggests
protect action against that however
since it is always enabled by Windows
itself it causes major CPU performance
loss and gives you much more input
latency now some of you guys might be
thinking why would you disable a
security feature and the short answer is
that it's pretty useless these days most
if not all browsers these days come with
security patches integrated into
themselves and in addition to that
having this setting on is only massively
increasing the latency and reducing the
performance of your PC still if you're
someone who works with sensitive
information a lot such as your bank
accounts perhaps then maybe you
shouldn't disable it however for gamers
I highly recommend that you go ahead and
disable Spectra and meltdown because by
disabling these settings alone you can
see a tremendous increase in the
smoothness of your games as well as
lower input latency so all you need to
do is double click on it hit yes and hit
OK as for the disable memory compression
if you guys want to know what it
actually is and how to enable or disable
it you can go ahead and check out this
video that will be at the top right
corner right now but for the sake of
this video we're gonna be going ahead
and right clicking on it and run it as
administrator and then you can go ahead
and press any key to continue so now
that we have applied all of the settings
within the windows itself now we're
going to be going ahead and applying
some of the BIOS tweaks mainly I'm gonna
show you guys two major settings that
you need to change inside of your bios
right now however to change those
settings you need to go ahead and put
into the BIOS first and there are
basically two methods which I'm gonna
show you right now and the first one is
actually pretty simple all you need to
do is hit your start menu and then
search for advanced startup then go
ahead and click on the change Advanced
startup options and then under the
advanced startup go ahead and click on
restart now then you will be taken to
this screen where you need to click on
troubleshoot then click on Advanced
options and then finally click on the
UEFI firmware settings and then click on
restart now this should boot most of you
guys into the BIOS however this method
may not work for everyone but the second
method is for everyone so what you need
to do is search up the BIOS boot key for
your motherboard on Google and then just
restart your PC and start spamming that
key as soon as the PC starts to boot up
and now you should be inside of your
bios the first setting that we will be
changing inside of the BIOS is to
disable the CPU C stays which will
massively help increase CPU performance
and lower latency but what are C States
in order to save energy when the CPU is
Idle the CPU can be commanded to enter a
low power mode each CPU has several
Power modes and they are basically known
as the sea States or C modes the thing
that you need to know is that c0 is
where the CPU is at its Optimal
Performance and starting from C1 it
gradually goes into power saving models
this can produce a lot of latency and of
course decrease in performance as the
CPU States go up higher it also takes
more time for the CPU to get it back to
c0 which is of course the performance
state so that is the reason we're gonna
be going ahead and disabling it so now
how to disable it since all of you are
probably not using the exact same
motherboard I cannot tell you an exact
place however for most motherboards it
will be under the advanced tab then CPU
configuration and finally CPU power
management for some MSI drives and
motherboards it will be in the overclock
tab Advanced CPU configurations AMD CBS
here is what it can be look like for
some of the motherboards but if you
can't find this setting in your bios you
can look up on Google how to disable C
States for your specific motherboard
model and once you find it just simply
go ahead and disable it the second
setting is to enable the XMP which
basically unlocks the advertised speed
for your RAM for example if you have RAM
sticks let's say they run at 3200
megahertz they aren't actually running
at that speed unless you enable the XMP
you can overclock the ram yourself to
achieve even better results however this
is the simpler method for most of you
who want to squeeze the most performance
out of your RAM also one thing to keep
in mind that in very rare cases this
setting may cause your PC to not boot up
due to your extreme memory profile XMP
being unstable but like I said it is
very rare and if you find yourself in
this position all you need to do is
reset the CMOS which will revert all of
the BIOS settings back to default I will
leave a link to a quick one minute video
on how to reset your CMOS right here
inside of the back so you can go ahead
and watch that before changing this
setting but yeah in your bios find the
setting called XMP it may be called docp
or extreme memory profile for some other
boards and enable it or set it to
profile 1 depending on which option you
have once again you can look up how to
enable XMP on your motherboard model to
find where the setting is located in
your specific bios it may look something
like this for most of the motherboards
now that you have changed both of these
settings go ahead and save these changes
and exit out of your bios you should
restart your PC a couple of times and
load up in your favorite games for a few
times to test the stability of these
settings as well as monitor your
temperatures to measure that everything
is in a stable condition but now that
you are done here go ahead and check out
this video to optimize your windows for
ultimate gaming and performance
thank you
[Music]